Here we discuss various topics about English dictionaries that help in our
day-to-day life and work.

Revision history:
20120322: creation
20120513: addition of many more (from Merriam-Webster series of dictionary); I
          think this topic is nearly exhausted now.

Availability

0. Cambridge Advanced Learner's Dictionary
   Working under Symbian, iPad
1. Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary 8 (OALD8)
   Relatively modern in terms of technology; just working in Windows up to XP/
   Server 2003, Linux(under wine), MacOSX, and iPad (at a price of 192RMB).
2. Oxford English Dictionary 2.0 v1.14 (OED2)
   Based on Windows 3.x; working in Windows up to XP, Server 2003, wine under
   linux, mac os x.
3. Oxford Dictionary of English (ODE)
   Working under Symbian, iPad
4. Merriam-Webster series of dictionary:
   + Merriam-Webster's 11th Collegiate Dictionary
   + Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Thesaurus
   + Merriam-Webster's Unabridged Dictionary
   Working under Windows XP and Server 2003, and Linux (thru wine); available
   in iPad and Symbian.
5. American Heritage Dictionary, 4th Edition
   Available in Windows, Linux+wine and iPad.
6. Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English, 5th Edition
   Available in Windows, Linux+wine, MAC, and iPad.
7. Collins Cobuild Advanced Learner's English Dictionary, Fifth Edition
   Available at least in Windows, iPad.
8. The Free Dictionary
   This free, online dictionary requires only a browser or dedicated client
   software plus an internet connection. It deserves special notice because of
   its various content sources:
   + Wikipedia
   + The American Heritage® Dictionary of the English Language, Fourth Edition
   + Collins English Dictionary – Complete and Unabridged
   + ...

In addition, there is a generic dictionary manager 'lingoes' with which you
could have these dictionaries available at least:
+ American Heritage Dictionary 4th Edition
+ American Heritage Dictionary
+ Cambridge Advanced Learner's Dictionary
+ Collins COBUILD Advanced Learner's English Dictionary
+ Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English
+ MacMillan English Dictionary - American
+ Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary

This software has the powerful feature of capturing screen text and displaying
corresponding dictionary content. Unfortunately, it is Windows only. The UI is
abnormal under wine in Linux.

